[MUSIC]
Okay, so, now we're back from the
restaurant and I really feel that I was
able to get a taste of this
project up close and personal.
Now, now what we're going to do now is
we're going to go of our design overview
and this is a combination of work that,
the graphic designer ie my wife did for
us.
And we're going to see how this is
going to evolve into a real website.
So let's go ahead and jump into it.
So when you're first starting
to design a website,
the worst thing you could possibly
do is start coding right away.
You don't want to do that.
You don't want to design a website
coding it at the same time.
What you do want to do is you want to
have some mock ups, some layout mock ups,
that you present to the client that
take little to no time to design and
to put together and present to the client.
And once they approve, and
you know exactly what you're coding,
of what you're trying to strive for
then you turn to the code editor and
you start coding the website.
So what we're going to do is
design the mock ups first.
So the tool we're going to
use is called balsamiq.com.
It's a balsamiq mock up tool, and
it lets us put together mock ups for
websites for other different UIs very,
very quickly and I'll show you
the cool part about it in a minute.
So let's go ahead and
switch to Balsamiq mock up, I'll provide
you the link to them in the resources.
So here's our Balsamiq mock up, we
finished the website layout already with
the help of the graphic designer,
ie my wife.
And before we want to actually design
let me just say a couple of words
about this tool.
This tool is not free but
it's really not that expensive.
However, what's really cool about this
tool, besides for the fact that it has
components for different platforms that
you're able to neatly lay them out.
You also have an integration
of components from
Bootstrap which is exactly what we're
going to use, so it's really convenient.
But I think one of the coolest features
of this tool for us as coders,
is that all these mock
ups are based upon a file
than is really nothing more than
HTML looking like, text file.
It means that you could check
things in into a code repository.
And when things get updated,
it's just the text that gets updated.
So unlike images and
things that really are impossible to
deal with inside repositories, and
there's no way to tell what the difference
is because it's not text, it's binary.
This is all text-based, and
therefore, you could take and
create a difference between what was
checked in at the repository yesterday
versus today,
versus is going to be tomorrow.
And it's huge, huge advantage when you're
working especially within a team, and
in a professional environment.
Okay, so let's take a look at our website
here that we, the mock up of the website.
So the mock up is, it's going to have
a logo with some text underneath, and
this is going to be basically our menu.
And I'm not sure 100% yet
If that's what the menu items will be,
definitely there will be a menu item,
right?
The menu menu for
the food menu that we're going to have.
And there's the phone number
with a little thing, we deliver.
Now, this big area, what's planned for
this is some kind of a picture
of the inside of the restaurant.
It's going to be what's called
a jumbotron In Bootstrap.
So when the user first gets in here, he
sees a very nice picture of the restaurant
and it's inviting and
they want to kind of proceed.
What's going to be underneath is three
giant buttons, Menu, Specials, and a Map.
And it's self-explanatory what it stands
for and these are kind of the key
things that we want the user of
this website to see right away.
Which is they want to see the menu,
perhaps specials, and
certainly where this is located.
At the bottom we're going to have Hours,
some budget quotes or
a couple of quotes about the restaurant,
and
we're going to have the actual
address of the restaurant as well.
Now remember,
this is going to be a responsive website.
So we need to design what
the site will look like
when the browser page gets
a little more narrow.
So the first one is going to be a tablet.
So what happens when you're in a tablet?
Well not much happens when you're in
a tablet in this particular design.
Because we're just going
to squeeze different items,
as opposed to before that's
going to kind of spread out.
And then we're just going to kind of
squeeze them a little bit more and
still have the jumbotron and
still have the specials.
They might be a little bit
squeezed in terms of size.
And everything else
basically stays the same.
Now, however, when we jump to going to a
mobile page, that becomes very different.
Now we're not going to have
these buttons anymore,
we're going to have a kind of
a menu that our user can click, and
the menu can slide down,
which is a very common feature.
You also notice,
that we moved the telephone number
in the middle of the page now.
Because supposedly on the mobile web page,
right you would want to, have the phone
number just a click away, or a tap away.
And we're going to have
this phone number tappable,
such that they can Make a phone
call straight from the page or
it will at least trigger their phone
to try to call the restaurant.
And we'll still have the jumbotron but
it's going to be much smaller one
because we don't want to overwhelm
the phone and the cell network.
We don't want it to be too slow.
And you can see here that now this
thing is a little bit rearranged.
We have the menu and the specials but
the map is now on the bottom
of those two things.
So we're going to have to figure out
how to have the map automatically slide
underneath of that.
And we're still going to have some
testimonials about the restaurant,
the hours, and the address.
Now, that's really not
all we need to design.
We also need to design another page and
we know up front we're going to
have this menu categories page.
Well in the menu categories page and
this is showing us the full one it
is going to basically have
a bunch of different things.
And here it looks like we're going
to have six menu categories across.
And it's basically going to continue until
we run out of these menu categories.
So that's basically what we're not
going to have a jumbotron here,
because at this point they're all ready
a little bit deeper into the website.
And the other is a menu list,
so we're going to have,
supposedly they will click on one of the
menu categories and they will see every
item inside that menu category, and
this is basically what we have.
So we're going to have a couple
of items across with their name,
with their description, and we're also
going to have a ID for every single item.
And that ID if you look, if you remember,
let me go back to the restaurant.
They would choose China Bistro and
that ID really comes from right here.
Every menu item has this ID that
is already on their menu so
we don't want to switch that back and
forth.
We want to keep that side so
the menu will correspond to
something that's on the website.
Okay, so that's our layout.
Next, let's take a look at some design
that has already some colors and
some more concrete layout.
So here's what our designer came up with.
This is just a basic idea,
this is what you are usually going
to get back from a designer.
You're going to get some
kind of a color scheme.
Some photography.
And the photography is not from
this particular restaurant.
It's just some stock photography
that you can certainly use
in order to kind of enhance
the site to see what it looks like.
And here's our menu.
Again, this is not the menu from
this particular restaurant, or
not the pictures from a particular
restaurant, but the map is.
So this is what we're going for.
Designer will typically provide for
you the hexodus more color values for
different components within your website,
and
it will also tell you which fonts
that they used inside this design.
Now depending on your budget and
if you're trying to do things for free or
certainly trying to find free resources,
I'll recommend the prompt that you
try to stick with Google fonts.
There's a website Google.com/fonts.
And which we'll be using for
our website ourselves.
So if you could ask your designer to
stick to the fonts that are available
on that website, it will make your job
down the line a little bit easier.
Now don't worry about
making minor mistakes,
at least with the color scheme and
other things like that.
For example, we messed up on this site by
not providing the designer the photography
up front because we just couldn't.
We didn't really arrange it that way.
We only did the photography
after the design was produced.
Which was not really under our control,
simply because that's the way
the schedules worked out.
But when we started comparing the photos
that we were able to get from the food
photography realize that
the color scheme especially for
this color right here, the reddish color,
is really the wrong one.
So we have two choices, we could colorize
every single picture that we took with
this red, and you were able to do
something less in Photoshop, or
just adjust our color,
this particular color, slightly so
that it will fit the color scheme that the
restaurant actually presents in real life.
And in this case our
color scheme kind of went
close together with the color of
the napkins in the restaurant.
Now what tool do you use do design this?
Well professional designers usually use
Photoshop, Adobe Photoshop to design this,
but you don't really have
to use something so fancy.
You can use something as simple as
PowerPoint or any drawing tool.
Because the idea here isn't to come
with with a complete 100% design
The idea here is really to
come up with enough detail so
when you code you will know
what you are trying to achieve.
And that is what basically this is about.
So we have our mock ups, we have our
design with the colors and the fonts.
It's time to start coding the website.
Let's do it.